 Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . ETFs provide lower average costs since it would be expensive for an investor to buy all the stocks held in an ETF portfolio individually. Investors only need to execute one transaction to buy and one transaction to sell, which leads to fewer broker commissions since there are only a few trades being done by investors. Brokers typically charge a commission for each trade. Some brokers even offer no-commission trading on certain low-cost ETFs reducing costs for investors even further. Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . An ETF's expense ratio is the cost to operate and manage the fund. ETFs typically have low expenses since they track an index. For example, if an ETF tracks the S&P 500 index, it might contain all 500 stocks from the S&P making it a passively-managed fund and less time-intensive. However, not all ETFs track an index in a passive manner. Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . Access to many stocks across various industries Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . Low expense ratios and fewer broker commissions. Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . Risk management through diversification Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . ETFs exist that focus on targeted industries Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . Actively-managed ETFs have higher fees Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . Single industry focus ETFs limit diversification Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . Lack of liquidity hinders transactions Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . There are also actively-managed ETFs, where portfolio managers are more involved in buying and selling shares of companies and changing the holdings within the fund. Typically, a more actively managed fund will have a higher expense ratio than passively-managed ETFs. It is important that investors determine how the fund is managed, whether it's actively or passively managed, the resulting expense ratio, and weigh the costs versus the rate of return to make sure it is worth holding. Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs . An indexed-stock ETF provides investors with the diversification of an index fund as well as the ability to sell short, buy on margin, and purchase as little as one share since there are no minimum deposit requirements. However, not all ETFs are equally diversified. Some may contain a heavy concentration in one industry, or a small group of stocks, or assets that are highly correlated to each other.