 Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Investing in an index fund is a form of passive investing. The opposite strategy is active investing, as realized in actively managed mutual funds—the ones with the securities-picking, market-timing portfolio manager described above. Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . One primary advantage that index funds possess over their actively managed counterparts is the lower management expense ratio. A fund's expense ratio—also known as the management expense ratio—includes all of the operating expenses such as the payment to advisors and managers, transaction fees, taxes, and accounting fees. Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Since the index fund managers are simply replicating the performance of a benchmark index, they do not need the services of research analysts and others that assist in the stock-selection process. Managers of index funds trade holdings less often incurring fewer transaction fees and commissions. In contrast, actively managed funds have bigger staffs and conduct more transactions, driving up the cost of doing business. Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . The extra costs of fund management are reflected in the fund's expense ratio and get passed on to investors. As a result, cheap index funds often cost less than a percent—0.2%-0.5% is typical, with some firms offering even lower expense ratios of 0.05% or less—compared to the much higher fees actively managed funds command—typically 1% to 2.5%. Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Expense ratios directly impact the overall performance of a fund. Actively managed funds, with their often-higher expense ratios, are automatically at a disadvantage to index funds, and struggle to keep up with their benchmarks in terms of overall return. Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . If you have an online brokerage account, check its mutual fund screener to see which index funds are available to you. Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Ultimate in diversification Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Low expense ratios Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Strong longterm returns Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Ideal for passive, buy-and-hold investors Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Vulnerable to market swings, crashes Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Lack of flexibility Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . No human element Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds . Limited gains