 Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . The problem with defining the word fundamentals is that it can cover anything related to the economic well-being of a company. They obviously include numbers like revenue and profit, but they can also include anything from a company's market share to the quality of its management. Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . The various fundamental factors can be grouped into two categories: quantitative and qualitative. The financial meaning of these terms isn't much different from their standard definitions. Here is how a dictionary defines the terms: Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . In this context, quantitative fundamentals are hard numbers. They are the measurable characteristics of a business. That's why the biggest source of quantitative data is financial statements. Revenue, profit, assets, and more can be measured with great precision. Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . The qualitative fundamentals are less tangible. They might include the quality of a company's key executives, its brand-name recognition, patents, and proprietary technology. Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . Neither qualitative nor quantitative analysis is inherently better. Many analysts consider them together. Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . There are four key fundamentals that analysts always consider when regarding a company. All are qualitative rather than quantitative. They include: Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . It's also important to consider a company's industry: customer base, market share among firms, industry-wide growth, competition, regulation, and business cycles. Learning about how the industry works will give an investor a deeper understanding of a company's financial health. Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . Financial statements are the medium by which a company discloses information concerning its financial performance. Followers of fundamental analysis use quantitative information gleaned from financial statements to make investment decisions. The three most important financial statements are income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements. Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . The Balance Sheet Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . The balance sheet represents a record of a company's assets, liabilities and equity at a particular point in time. The balance sheet is named by the fact that a business's financial structure balances in the following manner: Quantitative and Qualitative Fundamental Analysis . Assets = Liabilities + Shareholders\' Equity