 Understanding Long-Term Capital Management . LTCM started with just over $1 billion in initial assets and focused on bond trading. The trading strategy of the fund was to make convergence trades, which involve taking advantage of arbitrage between securities. These securities are incorrectly priced, relative to one another, at the time of the trade. Understanding Long-Term Capital Management . An example of an arbitrage trade would be a change in interest rates not yet adequately reflected in securities prices. This could open opportunities to trade such securities at values, different from what they will soon become, once the new rates have been priced in. LTCM also dealt in interest rate swaps, which involve the exchange of one series of future interest payments for another, based on a specified principal, among two counterparties. Often interest rate swaps consist of changing a fixed rate for a floating rate or vice versa, in order to minimize exposure to general interest rate fluctuations. Understanding Long-Term Capital Management . Due to the small spread in arbitrage opportunities, LTCM had to leverage itself highly to make money. At the fund’s height in 1998, LTCM had approximately $5 billion in assets, controlled over $100 billion, and had positions, whose total worth was over a $1 trillion. At the time, LTCM also had borrowed greater than $120 billion in assets. Understanding Long-Term Capital Management . When Russia defaulted on its debt in August 1998, LTCM was holding a significant position in Russian government bonds (known by the acronym GKO). Despite the loss of hundreds of millions of dollars per day, LTCM's computer models recommended that it hold its positions. When the losses approached $4 billion, the federal government of the United States feared that the imminent collapse of LTCM would precipitate a larger financial crisis and orchestrated a bailout to calm the markets. A $3.65-billion loan fund was created, which enabled LTCM to survive the market volatility and liquidate in an orderly manner in early 2000.