 Breaking Down Sector Rotation . Individuals or portfolio managers may deploy a sector rotation strategy. Sector rotation requires a great deal of liquidity and broad latitude for enacting investments positions. If broad trading flexibility is available, then sector rotation can be a viable way to position investment portfolios to take advantage of market cycles and trends providing for capital appreciation potential in particular areas of the investment universe. Sector rotation seeks to capitalize on the theory that not all sectors of the economy perform well at the same time. Managers using sector rotation strategies aim to rotate investment capital to sectors they identify as offering profitable investing opportunities. In-depth research on the economy and data from the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) helps to support sector rotation investing. Other types of sector rotation investing may center around seasonal or yearly trends with data supporting advantages to rotating in and out of different profitable categories throughout the year. Broadly, research on market cycles forms the basis of investment theory around sector rotation investing. Broad market sector rotation investing seeks to follow market cycles of the economy. These cycles can be characterized in various ways but are usually associated with bullish and bearish outlooks as well as recessions, recoveries, expansions, and contractions. Sector rotation strategies following economic market cycles often seek to identify bullish sector opportunities in expanding markets and mitigate losses through sector rotation to safe havens in recessionary markets. In a sense, sector rotation is a concept that most active portfolio managers keep in mind when considering all types of investments. However, implementing sector rotation strategies with significant market depth requires comprehensive foresight and access to in-depth market research for success. Professionally managed sector rotation funds can be a good investment because they seek to maintain positions in the most profitable areas of the market at all stages of an economy’s economic cycle.