 Getting a CD: Direct vs. Brokered CDs . If you have a brokerage account, you may have noticed CDs on offer there and wondered how they differ from certificates of deposit opened directly with a bank or credit union. The first point is that brokered CDs are bank CDs, with the brokerage firm serving as a process-simplifying middleman. That said, there are some important differences. Although brokered CDs occasionally offer rates competitive with direct bank certificates, more typically the rates on brokered CDs are lower. If maximizing your CD returns is a priority, you’ll generally be better off going straight to the source. But what brokered CDs give up in rates they counter with convenience, especially for those holding multiple CDs. That’s because brokered CDs will be included on the same regular monthly or quarterly statements you already get for your brokerage account, with all maturity dates and terms shown. This makes tracking what you hold, and when each will mature, much simpler. Opening a brokered CD is also a bit easier. As you already have an account with the brokerage firm, it will acquire the CD on your behalf. This spares you the bank paperwork of directly opening a CD and the extra statements you get afterward. Termination is also simplified: When the CD matures, the funds will typically move into your cash account at the brokerage firm. Early withdrawals are treated much differently for brokered CDs than direct bank certificates. If you need to cash out a brokered CD early, you are required to sell it on the secondary market. Although access to this marketplace is provided by your brokerage firm and is generally simple to navigate, there are no guarantees on what price you’ll be able to secure for your certificate. Key factors include whether you’re selling during a rising or decreasing interest-rate environment and the time left on your certificate.  Selling on the secondary market is not necessarily a negative — it doesn’t always lead to subpar returns. But what you give up is any guarantee or predictability on how much of your proceeds you’ll retain.