 Other Policy Aspects . The Doctrine of Adhesion. The doctrine of adhesion states that you must accept the entire insurance contract and all of its terms and conditions without bargaining. Because the insured has no opportunity to change the terms, any ambiguities in the contract will be interpreted in his or her favor. Principle of Waiver and Estoppel. A waiver is a voluntary surrender of a known right. Estoppel prevents a person from asserting those rights because he or she has acted in such a way as to deny interest in preserving those rights. Presume that you fail to disclose some information in the insurance proposal form. Your insurer doesn't request that information and issues the insurance policy. This is a waiver. In the future, when a claim arises, your insurer cannot question the contract on the basis of non-disclosure. This is estoppel. For this reason, your insurer will have to pay the claim. Endorsements are normally used when the terms of insurance contracts are to be altered. They could also be issued to add specific conditions to the policy. Co-insurance refers to the sharing of insurance by two or more insurance companies in an agreed proportion. For the insurance of a large shopping mall, for example, the risk is very high. Therefore, the insurance company may choose to involve two or more insurers to share the risk. Coinsurance can also exist between you and your insurance company. This provision is quite popular in medical insurance, in which you and the insurance company decide to share the covered costs in the ratio of 20:80. Therefore, during the claim, your insurer will pay 80% of the covered loss while you shell out the remaining 20%. Reinsurance occurs when your insurer "sells" some of your coverage to another insurance company. Suppose you are a famous rock star and you want your voice to be insured for $50 million. Your offer is accepted by the Insurance Company A. However, Insurance Company A is unable to retain the entire risk, so it passes part of this risk – let's say $40 million – to Insurance Company B. Should you lose your singing voice, you will receive $50 million from insurer A ($10 million + $40 million) with insurer B contributing the reinsured amount ($40 million) to insurer A. This practice is known as reinsurance. Generally, reinsurance is practiced to a much greater extent by general insurers than life insurers.