 Risks of Fixed-Income Securities . Although there are many benefits to fixed-income securities and are often considered safe and stable investments, there are some risks associated with them. Investors must way the pros and cons of before investing in fixed-income securities. Investing in fixed-income securities usually results in low returns and slow capital appreciation or price increases. The principal amount invested can be tied up for a long time, particularly in the case of long-term bonds with maturities greater than 10 years. As a result, investors don't have access to the cash and may take a loss if they need the money and cash in their bonds early. Also, since fixed-income products can often pay a lower return than equities, there's the opportunity of lost income. Fixed-income securities have interest rate risk meaning the rate paid by the security could be lower than interest rates in the overall market. For example, an investor that purchased a bond paying 2% per year might lose out if interest rates rise over the years to 4%. Fixed-income securities provide a fixed interest payment regardless of where interest rates move during the life of the bond. If rates rise, existing bondholders might lose out on the higher rates. Bonds issued by a high-risk company may not be repaid, resulting in loss of principal and interest. All bonds have credit risk or default risk associated with them since the securities are tied to the issuer's financial viability. If the company or government struggles financially, investors are at risk of default on the security. Investing in international bonds can increase the risk of default if the country is economically or politically unstable. Inflation erodes the return on fixed-rate bonds. Inflation is an overall measure of rising prices in the economy. Since the interest rate paid on most bonds is fixed for the life of the bond, inflation risk can be an issue if prices rise by a faster rate than the interest rate on the bond. If a bond pays 2% and inflation is rising by 4%, the bondholder is losing money when factoring in the rise in prices of goods in the economy. Ideally, investors want fixed-income security that pays a high enough interest rate that the return beats out inflation.