 Seeking Investment Alpha . The entire investing universe offers a broad range of securities, investment products and advisory options for investors to consider. Different market cycles also have an influence on the alpha of investments across different asset classes. This is why risk-return metrics are important to consider in conjunction with alpha. This is illustrated in the following two historical examples for a fixed income ETF and an equity ETF: The iShares Convertible Bond ETF (ICVT) is a fixed income investment with low risk. It tracks a customized index called the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Convertible Cash Pay Bond > $250MM Index. ICVT had a relatively low annual standard deviation of 4.72%. Year-to-date, as of November 15, 2017, its return was 13.17%. The Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index had a return of 3.06% over the same period. Therefore, the alpha for ICVT was 10.11% in comparison to the Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index and for a relatively low risk with a standard deviation of 4.72%. However, since the aggregate bond index is not the proper benchmark for ICVT (it should be the Bloomberg Barclay's Convertible index), this alpha may not be as large as initially thought, and in fact may be misattributed since convertible bonds have far riskier profiles than plain vanilla bonds. WisdomTree U.S. Quality Dividend Growth Fund (DGRW) is an equity investment with higher market risk that seeks to invest in dividend growth equities. Its holdings track a customized index called the WisdomTree U.S. Quality Dividend Growth Index. It has a three-year annualized standard deviation of 10.58%, higher than ICVT. Its year-to-date return as of November 15, 2017 is 18.24% which is higher than the S&P 500 at 14.67%, so it has an alpha of 3.57% in comparison to the S&P 500. But, again, the S&P 500 may not be the correct benchmark for this ETF, since dividend-paying growth stocks are a very particular subset of the overall stock market, and may not even be inclusive of the 500 most valuable stocks in America. The above example illustrates the success of two fund managers in generating alpha. Evidence, however, shows that active managers’ rates of achieving alpha in funds and portfolios across the investment universe are not always this successful. Statistics show that over the past ten years, 83% of active funds in the U.S. fail to match their chosen benchmarks. Experts attribute this trend to many causes, including: