 Specialty CDs: Bump-Up, Add-On, No-Penalty, Jumbo, and IRA . The most common CD type follows the standard formula of depositing your funds, letting them sit untouched until the end of the term, and withdrawing them upon maturity. But banks and credit unions also offer a variety of specialty certificates with different structures and rules. These are sometimes called raise-your-rate certificates. Bump-up CDs offer savers a chance to access a higher rate usually one time during their term. So if you open a 5-year certificate and rates rise during that period, you’ll have one opportunity to lock in at a higher rate currently offered by the bank, which will then apply for the duration of your term. Occasionally, bump-up CDs will allow two rate increases, although only for long-term CDs. Add-on CDs let you play around with your deposit amount, instead of your interest rate. Here you can open the CD with one amount, but make additional deposits to increase your invested principal. Some banks will allow as many add-ons as you like; others will stipulate a certain number of allowable add-ons per time period (e.g., per month or quarter), and a few will limit the add-ons to just one or two during the full term.  These sound enticing, as they seem to provide the interest rate benefit of a certificate of deposit, but with less risk should you need to cash out early. No-penalty CDs can indeed bridge the gap between a fully accessible savings account and a CD with an early withdrawal penalty. But as you can guess, "no penalty" comes with a price tag: a lower interest rate than you would be able to earn with a traditional CD. So it’s important to compare the rates of no-penalty CDs with what you can earn from a top savings or money market account. These are another product you may encounter when shopping for certificates. Jumbos are simply CDs with a large minimum deposit. No governing body prescribes the floor for calling a CD a “jumbo,” so each bank decides for itself. The most typical threshold is a $50,000 minimum deposit. Some institutions call $25,000 CDs a jumbo (or perhaps “mini jumbo”) certificate, while others reserve the jumbo label for CDs of at least $100,000. Certificates of deposit can also be a useful savings vehicle for retirement funds. Many banks and credit unions offer IRA CDs. Some have a separate menu of CDs that are available as IRAs, while other institutions allow any of their standard CDs to be set up as IRA CDs. One difference in either case is that IRA CDs must be held in an officially designated IRA account.