 Types of Fixed-Income Securities . Although there are many types of fixed-income securities, below we've outlined a few of the most popular in addition to corporate bonds. Treasury notes (T-notes) are issued by the U.S. Treasury and are intermediate-term bonds that mature in two, three, five, or 10 years. T-Notes usually have a face value of $1,000 and pay semiannual interest payments at fixed coupon rates or interest rates. The interest payment and principal repayment of all Treasurys are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, which issues these bonds to fund its debts. Another type of fixed-income security from the U.S. Treasury is the Treasury bond (T-bond) which matures in 30 years. Treasury bonds typically have par values of $10,000 and are sold on auction on TreasuryDirect. Short-term fixed-income securities include Treasury bills. The T-bill matures within one year from issuance and doesn't pay interest. Instead, investors can buy the security at a lower price than its face value, or a discount. When the bill matures, investors are paid the face value amount. The interest earned or return on the investment is the difference between the purchase price and the face value amount of the bill. A municipal bond is a government bond issued by states, cities, and counties to fund capital projects, such as building roads, schools, and hospitals. The interest earned from these bonds is tax exempt from federal income tax. Also, the interest earned on a muni bond might be exempt from state and local taxes if the investor resides in the state where the bond is issued. The muni bond has several maturity dates in which a portion of the principal comes due on a separate date until the entire principal is repaid. Munis are usually sold with a $5,000 face value. A bank issues a certificate of deposit (CD). In return for depositing money with the bank for a predetermined period, the bank pays interest to the account holder. CDs have maturities of less than five years and typically pay lower rates than bonds, but higher rates than traditional savings accounts. A CD has Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance up to $250,000 per account holder. Companies issue preferred stocks that provide investors with a fixed dividend, set as a dollar amount or percentage of share value on a predetermined schedule. Interest rates and inflation influence the price of preferred shares, and these shares have higher yields than most bonds due to their longer duration. 