 Understanding Operating Cash Flow (OCF) . Operating cash flow represents the cash impact of a company's net income (NI) from its primary business activities. Operating cash flow, also referred to as cash flow from operating activities, is the first section presented on the cash flow statement. Two methods of presenting the operating cash flow section are acceptable under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)—the indirect method or the direct method. However, if the direct method is used, the company must still perform a separate reconciliation in a similar manner to the indirect method. Using the indirect method, net income is adjusted to a cash basis using changes in non-cash accounts, such as depreciation, accounts receivable, and accounts payable (AP). Because most companies report net income on an accrual basis, it includes various non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization. Net income must also be adjusted for changes in working capital accounts on the company's balance sheet. For example, an increase in AR indicates that revenue was earned and reported in net income on an accrual basis although cash has not been received. This increase in AR must be subtracted from net income to find the true cash impact of the transactions. Conversely, an increase in AP indicates that expenses were incurred and booked on an accrual basis that have not yet been paid. This increase in AP would need to be added back to net income to find the true cash impact. Operating cash flows concentrate on cash inflows and outflows related to a company's main business activities, such as selling and purchasing inventory, providing services, and paying salaries. Any investing and financing transactions are excluded from operating cash flows section and reported separately, such as borrowing, buying capital equipment, and making dividend payments. Operating cash flow can be found on a company's statement of cash flows, which is broken down into cash flows from operations, investing, and financing.