 Understanding Price Levels . There are two meanings of the term price level in the world of business. The first is what most people are accustomed to hearing about: the price of goods and services or the amount of money a consumer or other entity is required to give up to purchase a good, service, or security in the economy. Prices rise as demand increases and drop when demand decreases. This is used as a reference to inflation and deflation, or the rise and fall of prices in the economy. If the prices of goods and services rise too quickly—when an economy experiences inflation—a central bank can step in and tighten its monetary policy and raises interest rates. This, in turn, decreases the amount of money in the system, thereby decreasing aggregate demand. If prices drop too quickly, the central bank can do the reverse: loosen its monetary policy, thereby increasing the economy's money supply and aggregate demand. The other meaning of price level refers to the price of assets traded on the market such as a stock or a bond, which is often referred to as support and resistance. As in the case of the definition of price in the economy, demand for the security increases when its price drops. This forms the support line. When the price increases, a sell-off occurs, cutting off demand. This is where the resistance zone lies. In economics, price level refers to the buying power of money or inflation. In other words, economists describe the state of the economy by looking at how much people can buy with the same dollar of currency. The most common price level index is the consumer price index (CPI). The price level is analyzed through a basket of goods approach, in which a collection of consumer-based goods and services is examined in aggregate. Changes in the aggregate price over time push the index measuring the basket of goods higher. Weighted averages are typically used rather than geometric means. Price levels provide a snapshot of prices at a given time, making it possible to review changes in the broad price level over time. As prices rise (inflation) or fall (deflation), consumer demand for goods is also affected. This leads to broad production measures such as gross domestic product (GDP) higher or lower. Price levels are one of the most watched economic indicators in the world. Economists widely believe that prices should stay relatively stable year to year so they don't cause undue inflation. If price levels rise too quickly, central bankers or governments look for ways to decrease the money supply or the aggregate demand for goods and services.