 Understanding Troughs . The business cycle moves in five phases: expansion, peak, contraction, trough, and recovery. The trough is the bottoming process of moving from contraction, or declining business activity, to recovery, which is increasing business activity. Economists use several metrics to track the economic cycle throughout its various phases. The most recognizable of these is gross domestic product (GDP), which is the total value of all goods and services that a country produces. A trough is the stage of the economy's business cycle that marks the end of a period of declining business activity and the transition to expansion. The business cycle is the upward and downward movement of gross domestic product and consists of recessions and expansions that end in peaks and troughs. Employment levels also offer an indicator of where the economy stands in the business cycle. Unemployment levels of less than 5% are consistent with full employment and are indicative of economic expansion. When the unemployment rate rises from month to month, the economy has most likely entered a contractionary phase. When the unemployment rate bottoms out, a trough has likely occurred. Incomes and wages are also indicators for where the economy stands in the business cycle. These increase during expansion, recede during contraction, and bottom out during a trough. The major U.S. stock market indices, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and Standard & Poor's 500 Index (S&P 500) also track closely with the business cycle. Declines in the stock market coincide or foreshadow contraction in the economy. When stocks rally after a significant decline, it could signal the economic trough is in, or coming soon, leading to a rise in economic activity. Troughs are recognizable in hindsight, but harder to spot in real-time. As the economic indicators contract, the economy is in a contraction phase. This phase can last for a short or long period of time. It is only once the economic activity begins to increase again, as shown on economic indicators, that expansion is likely underway and the trough (or bottom) has been put in.