 Understanding Samples . A sample is an unbiased number of observations taken from a population. In basic terms, a population is the total number of individuals, animals, items, observation, data, etc. of any given subject. So the sample, in other words, is a portion, part, or fraction of the whole group, and acts as a subset of the population. Samples are used in a variety of settings where research is conducted. Scientists, marketers, government agencies, economists, and research groups are among those who use samples for their studies and measurements. Using whole populations for research comes with challenges, which is why samples are used. Researchers may have problems gaining ready access to entire populations. And because of the nature of some studies, researchers may have difficulties getting the results they need in a timely fashion. This is why people who conduct studies use samples. Using a smaller number of people who represent the entire population can still produce valid results while cutting back on time and resources. Samples used by researchers should closely resemble the population. All the participants in the sample should share the same characteristics and qualities. So, if the study is about male college freshmen, the sample should be a small percentage of males that fit this description. Similarly, if a research group conducts a study on the sleep patterns of single women over 50, the sample should only include women within this demographic. Consider a team of academic researchers who want to know how many students studied for less than 40 hours for the CFA exam and still passed. Since more than 200,000 people take the exam globally each year, reaching out to each and every exam participant may be extremely tedious and time-consuming. In fact, by the time the data from the population has been collected and analyzed, a couple of years would have passed, making the analysis worthless since a new population would have emerged. What the researchers can do instead is take a sample of the population and get data from this sample.