 What If I Need to Withdraw My Money Early? . Even though opening a CD involves agreeing to keep the funds on deposit without withdrawals for the duration of the term, that doesn’t mean you don’t have options if your plans need to change. Whether you encounter an emergency or a change in your financial situation—or simply feel you can use the money more usefully or lucratively elsewhere—all banks and credit unions have stipulated terms for how to cash your CD out early. The exit won’t be free, of course. The most common way that financial institutions accommodate a premature termination is by assessing an early withdrawal penalty (EWP) on the proceeds before your funds are distributed, according to specific terms and calculations that were set out in your deposit agreement when you first opened the certificate. This means you can know before you agree to the CD if the early withdrawal penalty is acceptable to you. Most typically, the EWP is charged as a number of months’ interest, with a greater number of months for longer CD terms and fewer months for shorter CDs. For instance, a bank’s policy might be to deduct three months’ interest for all CDs with terms up to 12 months, six months’ interest for those with terms up to 3 years, and a full year’s worth of interest for its long-term CDs. These are just examples—every bank and credit union sets its own early withdrawal penalty, so it’s important to compare EWP policies whenever you are deciding between two similar CDs. It’s especially wise to watch out for early withdrawal policies that can eat into your principal. The typical EWP policy described above will only cause you to earn less than you would have if you’d kept the CD to maturity. You will generally still have earnings, as the EWP will usually only eat up a portion of your earned interest. But some particularly onerous penalties exist in the marketplace, where a flat-percentage penalty is applied. Since this percentage can outweigh what you’ve earned on a CD you haven’t kept very long, you could find yourself collecting less in proceeds than you invested. As a result, these types of EWPs are best avoided.