 What Influences T-Bill Prices? . T-Bill prices fluctuate similarly to other debt securities. Many factors can influence T-Bill prices, including macroeconomic conditions, monetary policy, and the overall supply and demand for Treasuries. T-Bills with longer maturity dates tend to have higher returns than those with shorter maturities. In other words, short-term T-bills are discounted less than longer-dated T-bills. Longer-dated maturities pay higher returns than short-dated bills because there's more risk priced into the instruments meaning there's a greater chance that interest rates could rise. Rising market interest rates make the fixed-rate T-bills less attractive. Investors' risk tolerance affects prices. T-Bill prices tend to drop when other investments such as equities appear less risky, and the U.S. economy is in an expansion. Conversely, during recessions, investors tend to invest in T-Bills as a safe place for their money spiking the demand for these safe products. Since T-bills are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, they're seen as the closest thing to a risk-free return in the market. The monetary policy set by the Federal Reserve through the federal funds rate has a strong impact on T-Bill prices as well. The federal funds rate refers to the interest rate that banks charge other banks for lending them money from their reserve balances on an overnight basis. The Fed increase or decrease the fed funds rate in an effort to contract or expand the monetary policy and the availability of money in the economy. A lower rate allows banks to have more money to lend while a higher fed funds rate decreases money in the system for banks to lend. As a result, the Fed's actions impact short-term rates including those for T-bill. A rising federal funds rate tends to draw money away from Treasuries and into higher-yielding investments. Since the T-bill rate is fixed, investors tend to sell T-bills when the Fed is hiking rates because the T-bill rates are less attractive. Conversely, if the Fed is cutting interest rates, money flows into existing T-bills driving up prices as investors buy up the higher-yielding T-bills. The Federal Reserve is also one of the largest purchasers of government debt securities. When the Federal Reserve purchases U.S. government bonds, bond prices rise while the money supply increases throughout the economy as sellers receive funds to spend or invest. Funds deposited into banks are used by financial institutions to lend to companies and individuals, boosting economic activity.