 Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . The most significant benefit of intraday trading is that positions are not affected by the possibility of negative overnight news that has the potential to impact the price of securities materially. Such news includes vital economic and earnings reports, as well as broker upgrades and downgrades that occur either before the market opens or after the market closes. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Trading in an intraday basis offers several other key advantages. One advantage is the ability to use tight stop-loss orders—the act of raising a stop price to minimize losses from a long position. Another includes the increased access to margin—and hence, greater leverage. Intraday trading also provides traders with more learning opportunities.  Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . However, with every silver lining, there are also storm clouds. Disadvantages of intraday trading include insufficient time for a position to see increases in profit, in some cases any profit at all, and increased commission costs due to trading more frequently which eats away at the profit margins a trader can expect. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Positions are unaffected by risk from overnight news or off-hours broker moves. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Tight stop-loss orders can protect positions. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Regular traders have access to increased leverage. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Numerous trades increase hands-on learning experience. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Frequent trades mean multiple commission costs. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Some assets are off-limits, like mutual funds. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . There may not be sufficient time for a position to realize a profit before it has to be closed out. Advantages and Disadvantages of Intraday Trading . Losses can mount quickly, especially if margin is used to finance purchases.