 Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Private investment in public equity carries several advantageous for issuers. Large amounts of shares are typically sold to knowledgeable investors long term, ensuring the company secures the funding it needs. PIPEs can be particularly advantageous for small- to medium-sized public companies that may have a hard time accessing more traditional forms of equity financing. Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Because PIPE shares do not need to be registered in advance with the SEC or meet all the usual federal registration requirements for public stock offerings, transactions proceed more efficiently with fewer administrative requirements. Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . However, on the downside, investors may sell their stock in a short amount of time, driving down the market price. If the market price drops below a set threshold, the company may have to issue additional stock at a significantly reduced price. This new share issue dilutes the value of shareholders’ investments. Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Short sellers may take advantage of the situation by repeatedly selling their shares and lowering the share price, potentially resulting in PIPE investors having majority ownership of the company. Setting a minimum share price below which no compensatory stock is issued can avoid this problem. Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Fast source of capital funds Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Less paperwork and filing requirements Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Lower transactional costs Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Discounted share prices (for investors) Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Diluted share value (for current stockholders) Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Buyers limited to accredited investors Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Discounted share price (less capital for company) Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs . Potential need for shareholder approval