 Advantages of Mutual Funds . A primary advantage of mutual funds is not having to pick stocks and manage investments. Instead, a professional investment manager takes care of all of this using careful research and skillful trading. Investors purchase funds because they often do not have the time or the expertise to manage their own portfolios, or they don't have access to the same kind of information that a professional fund has. A mutual fund is a relatively inexpensive way for a small investor to get a full-time manager to make and monitor investments. Most private, non-institutional money managers deal only with high-net-worth individuals—people with at least six figures to invest. However, mutual funds, as noted above, require much lower investment minimums. So, these funds provide a low-cost way for individual investors to experience and hopefully benefit from professional money management. Advantages of Mutual Funds . Investors have the freedom to research and select from managers with a variety of styles and management goals. For instance, a fund manager may focus on value investing, growth investing, developed markets, emerging markets, income, or macroeconomic investing, among many other styles. One manager may also oversee funds that employ several different styles. This variety allows investors to gain exposure to not only stocks and bonds but also commodities, foreign assets, and real estate through specialized mutual funds. Some mutual funds are even structured to profit from a falling market (known as bear funds). Mutual funds provide opportunities for foreign and domestic investment that may not otherwise be directly accessible to ordinary investors. Advantages of Mutual Funds . Mutual funds are subject to industry regulation that ensures accountability and fairness to investors. Advantages of Mutual Funds . Liquidity Advantages of Mutual Funds . Diversification Advantages of Mutual Funds . Minimal investment requirements Advantages of Mutual Funds . Professional management Advantages of Mutual Funds . Variety of offerings Advantages of Mutual Funds . High fees, commissions, and other expenses Advantages of Mutual Funds . Large cash presence in portfolios Advantages of Mutual Funds . No FDIC coverage Advantages of Mutual Funds . Difficulty in comparing funds Advantages of Mutual Funds . Lack of transparency in holdings