 BREAKING DOWN Hedge . The specific hedging strategy, as well as the pricing of hedging instruments, is likely to depend upon the downside risk of the underlying security against which the investor would like to hedge. Generally, the greater the downside risk, the greater the hedge. Downside risk tends to increase with higher levels of volatility and over time; an option which expires after a longer period and which is linked to a more volatile security will thus be more expensive as a means of hedging. In the STOCK example above, the higher the strike price, the more expensive the option will be, but the more price protection it will offer as well. These variables can be adjusted to create a less expensive option which offers less protection, or a more expensive one which provides greater protection. Still, at a certain point, it becomes inadvisable to purchase additional price protection from the perspective of cost effectiveness. BREAKING DOWN Hedge . Using derivatives to hedge an investment enables for precise calculations of risk, but requires a measure of sophistication and often quite a bit of capital. Derivatives are not the only way to hedge, however. Strategically diversifying a portfolio to reduce certain risks can also be considered a hedge, albeit a somewhat crude one. For example, Rachel might invest in a luxury goods company with rising margins. She might worry, though, that a recession could wipe out the market for conspicuous consumption. One way to combat that would be to buy tobacco stocks or utilities, which tend to weather recessions well and pay hefty dividends. BREAKING DOWN Hedge . This strategy has its tradeoffs: If wages are high and jobs are plentiful, the luxury goods maker might thrive, but few investors would be attracted to boring counter-cyclical stocks, which might fall as capital flows to more exciting places. It also has its risks: There is no guarantee that the luxury goods stock and the hedge will move in opposite directions. They could both drop due to one catastrophic event, as happened during the financial crisis, or for unrelated reasons, such as floods in China which drive tobacco prices up, while a strike in Mexico does the same to silver.