 BREAKING DOWN Hedge . In the index space, moderate price declines are quite common, and they are also highly unpredictable. Investors focusing in this area may be more concerned with moderate declines than with more severe ones. In these cases, a bear put spread is a common hedging strategy. BREAKING DOWN Hedge . In this type of spread, the index investor buys a put which has a higher strike price. Next, he sells a put with a lower price but the same expiration date. Depending upon the way that the index behaves, the investor thus has a degree of price protection equal to the difference between the two strike prices. While this is likely to be a moderate amount of protection, it is often sufficient to cover a brief downturn in the index. BREAKING DOWN Hedge . Hedging is a technique utilized to reduce risk, but it’s important to keep in mind that nearly every hedging practice will have its own downsides. First, as indicated above, hedging is imperfect and is not a guarantee of future success, nor does it ensure that any losses will be mitigated. Rather, investors should think of hedging in terms of pros and cons. Do the benefits of a particular strategy outweigh the added expense it requires? Because hedging will rarely if ever result in an investor making money, it’s worth remembering that a successful hedge is one that only prevents losses. BREAKING DOWN Hedge . For most investors, hedging will never come into play in their financial activities. Many investors are unlikely to trade a derivative contract at any point. Part of the reason for this is that investors with a long-term strategy, such as those individuals saving for retirement, tend to ignore the day-to-day fluctuations of a given security. In these cases, short-term fluctuations are not critical because an investment will likely grow with the overall market. BREAKING DOWN Hedge . For investors who fall into the buy-and-hold category, there may seem to be little to no reason to learn about hedging at all. Still, because large companies and investment funds tend to engage in hedging practices on a regular basis, and because these investors might follow or even be involved with these larger financial entities, it’s useful to have an understanding of what hedging entails so as to better be able to track and comprehend the actions of these larger players.