 Compound Interest Rate . Some lenders prefer the compound interest method, which means that the borrower pays even more in interest. Compound interest also called interest on interest, is applied to the principal but also on the accumulated interest of previous periods. The bank assumes that at the end of the first year the borrower owes the principal plus interest for that year. The bank also assumes that at the end of the second year, the borrower owes the principal plus the interest for the first year plus the interest on interest for the first year. Compound Interest Rate . The interest owed when compounding is higher than the interest owed using the simple interest method. The interest is charged monthly on the principal including accrued interest from the previous months. For shorter time frames, the calculation of interest will be similar for both methods. As the lending time increases, however, the disparity between the two types of interest calculations grows. Compound Interest Rate . The table below is an illustration of how compound interest works. Compound Interest Rate . At the end of 20 years, the total owed is almost $5 million on a $300,000 loan. A simpler method of calculating compound interest is to use the following formula: Compound Interest Rate . Where: Compound Interest Rate . When an entity saves money using a savings account, compound interest is favorable. The interest earned on these accounts is compounded and is compensation to the account holder for allowing the bank to use the deposited funds. If a business deposits $500,000 into a high-yield savings account, the bank can take $300,000 of these funds to use as a mortgage loan. Compound Interest Rate . To compensate the business, the bank pays 6% interest into the account annually. So, while the bank is taking 15% from the borrower, it is giving 6% to the business account holder, or the bank’s lender, netting it 9% in interest. In effect, savers lend the bank money, which, in turn, provides funds to borrowers in return for interest.