 Derivatives . Futures contracts are derivatives that obtain their value from an underlying cash commodity or index. A futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a particular commodity or asset at a preset price and at a preset time or date in the future. Derivatives . For example, a standard corn futures contract represents 5,000 bushels of corn, while a standard crude oil futures contract represents 1,000 barrels of oil. There are futures contracts on assets as diverse as currencies and the weather. Derivatives . Another type of derivative is a swap agreement. A swap is a financial agreement among parties to exchange a sequence of cash flows for a defined amount of time. Interest rate swaps and currency swaps are common types of swap agreements. Interest rate swaps, for example, are agreements to exchange a series of interest payments for another based off a principal amount. One company might want floating interest rate payments while another might want fixed-rate payments. The swap agreement allows two parties to exchange the cash flows. Derivatives . Swaps are generally traded over the counter but are slowly moving to centralized exchanges. The financial crisis of 2008 led to new financial regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Act, which created new swaps exchanges to encourage centralized trading. Derivatives . There are multiple reasons why investors and corporations trade swap derivatives. The most common include: Derivatives . A forward contract is a contract to trade an asset, often currencies, at a future time and date for a specified price. A forward contract is similar to a futures contract except that forwards can be customized to expire on a particular date or for a specific amount. Derivatives . For example, if a U.S. company is due to receive a stream of payments in euros each month, the amounts must be converted to U.S. dollars. Each time there's an exchange, a different exchange rate is applied given the prevailing euro-to-U.S. dollar rate. As a result, the company might receive different dollar amounts each month despite the euro amount being fixed because of exchange rate fluctuations. Derivatives . A forward contract allows the company to lock in an exchange rate today for every month of euro payments. Each month the company receives euros, they are converted based on the forward contract rate. The contract is executed with a bank or broker and allows the company to have predictable cash flows.