 Example of Inflation . Imagine your grandma stuffed a $10 bill in her old wallet in the year 1975 and then forgot about it. The cost of gasoline during that year was around $0.50 per gallon, which means she could have then bought 20 gallons of gasoline with that $10 note. Twenty-five years later in the year 2000, the cost of gasoline was around $1.60 per gallon. If she finds the forgotten note in the year 2000 and then goes on to purchase gasoline, she would have bought only 6.25 gallons. Although the $10 note remained the same for its value, it lost its purchasing power by around 69 percent over the 25-year period. This simple example explains how money loses its value over time when prices rise. This phenomenon is called inflation. Example of Inflation . However, it is not necessary that prices always rise with the passage of time. They may remain steady or even decline. For instance, the cost of wheat in the U.S. hit a record high of $11.05 per bushel during March 2008. By August 2016, it came down to $3.99 per bushel which may be attributed to a variety of factors like good weather condition leading to higher production of wheat. This means that a particular currency note, say $100, would have gotten a lesser quantity of wheat in 2008 and a greater quantity in 2016. In this case, the purchasing power of the same $100 note increased over the period as the price of the commodity declined. This phenomenon is called deflation and is the opposite of inflation. Example of Inflation . While it is easy to measure the price changes of individual products over time, human needs extend much beyond one or two such products. Individuals need a big and diversified set of products as well as a host of services for living a comfortable life. They include commodities like food grains, metal and fuel, utilities like electricity and transportation, and services like healthcare, entertainment, and labor. Inflation aims to measure the overall impact of price changes for a diversified set of products and services, and allows for a single value representation of the increase in the price level of goods and services in an economy over a period of time. Example of Inflation . ﻿﻿