 GDP vs. GNP vs. GNI . Although GDP is a widely used metric, alternative ways of measuring a country's economy do exist. Many of them are based on nationality rather than geography. GDP vs. GNP vs. GNI . GDP refers to and measures the economic activity within the physical borders of a country, whether the producers are native to that country or foreign-owned entities. In contrast, Gross National Product (GNP) does the opposite: It measures the overall production of a native person or corporation including those based abroad while excluding domestic production by foreigners. GDP vs. GNP vs. GNI . Gross National Income (GNI), another measure, is the sum of all income earned by citizens or nationals of a country regardless of whether the underlying economic activity takes place domestically or abroad. The relationship between GNP and GNI is similar to that between the production approach and the income approach to calculating GDP. GNP is an older measurement that uses the production approach, while GNI is the often preferred modern estimate and uses the income approach. With this approach, the income of a country is calculated as its domestic income plus its indirect business taxes and depreciation, as well as its net foreign factor income. Net foreign factor income is found by subtracting the payments made to foreigners from the payments made to Americans. GDP vs. GNP vs. GNI . In an increasingly global economy, GNI is being recognized as possibly a better metric for overall economic health than GDP. Because certain countries have most of their income withdrawn abroad by foreign corporations and individuals, their GDP figures are much higher than those of their GNI. For instance, in 2014, Luxembourg recorded $65.7 billion of GDP, while its GNI was $43.2 billion. The discrepancy was due to large payments made to the rest of the world via foreign corporations that did business in Luxembourg, attracted by the tiny nation's favorable tax laws. GDP vs. GNP vs. GNI . Usually, the U.S. gross national income (GNI) and gross domestic product (GDP) do not differ substantially.