 Great Recession Origins and Consequences . In the wake of the 2001 recession and the World Trade Center attacks of 9/11/2001, the U.S. Federal Reserve pushed interest rates to the lowest levels seen up to that time in the post-Bretton Woods era in an attempt to maintain economic stability. The Fed held low interest rates through mid-2004. Combined with federal policy to encourage home ownership, these low interest rates helped spark a steep boom in real estate and financial markets. Financial innovations such as new types of subprime and adjustable mortgages allowed borrowers, who otherwise might not have qualified otherwise, to obtain generous home loans based on expectations that interest rates would remain low and home prices would continue to rise indefinitely. Great Recession Origins and Consequences . However, from 2004 through 2006, the Federal Reserve steadily increased interest rates in an attempt to maintain stable rates of inflation in the economy. As market interest rates rose in response, the flow of new credit through traditional banking channels into real estate moderated. Perhaps more seriously, the rates on existing adjustable mortgages and even more exotic loans began to reset at much higher rates than many borrowers expected or were led to expect. The result was the bursting of what was later widely recognized to be a housing bubble. Great Recession Origins and Consequences . During the American housing boom of the mid-2000s, financial institutions had begun marketing mortgage-backed securities and sophisticated derivative products at unprecedented levels. When the real estate market collapsed in 2007, these securities declined precipitously in value. The credit markets that had financed the housing bubble, quickly followed housing prices into a downturn as a credit crisis began unfolding in 2007. The solvency of over-leveraged banks and financial institutions came to a breaking point beginning with the collapse of Bear Stearns in March 2008. Great Recession Origins and Consequences . Things came to a head later that year with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the country’s fourth-largest investment bank, in September 2008. The contagion quickly spread to other economies around the world, most notably in Europe. As a result of the Great Recession, the United States alone shed more than 8.7 million jobs, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, causing the unemployment rate to double. Further, American households lost roughly $19 trillion of net worth as a result of the stock market plunge, according to the U.S Department of the Treasury. The Great Recession's official end date was June 2009.