 How a Futures Exchange Works . The function of a futures exchange is to standardize and promote futures trading for as many participants as possible. The incentive mechanisms for those who run the exchange are roughly based on the volume and dollar value of what is traded—the more the better. That means they work to bring in as many participants making as many trades as is possible. This has led to many innovations in recent years, driving increased participation through electronic networks. How a Futures Exchange Works . Where a futures exchange used to have an important physical presence, such as the trading floors in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) or the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), it is no longer true that these locations hold as much meaning as they once did. Since trading can happen from the computer of anyone connected through the internet to an exchange-member broker, trading is decentralized around the world and happens nearly 24 hours a day during the week. How a Futures Exchange Works . Futures traded on a futures exchange allow the sellers of the underlying commodities the certainty on the price they will receive for their products at the market. At the same time, the exchange will enable consumers or buyers of those underlying commodities the certainty of the price they will pay, at a defined time in the future. How a Futures Exchange Works . To encourage as much participation and liquidity as possible, contracts trading on an exchange have standardized sizes, expiration dates, and, for options, strike prices. This standardization contrasts to over-the-counter (OTC) contracts where buyers and sellers agree to bespoke terms. How a Futures Exchange Works . Exchanges also provide pricing information, disseminated by information vendor firms. Information sharing allows for transparency in activities and fairness to all. Pricing information, including price, bids, and offers, is available to all interested institutions and individuals equally, no matter their size. How a Futures Exchange Works . Another very important aspect of the exchange is that it provides clearing services. While various firms provide the clearing, the exchange standardizes the charges and the performance of that service. Clearing services insure that participants don't have to worry about the risk of their trade counterparty failing to deliver on their contractual obligations. That makes trading a very simple proposition for short-term speculators and keeps them interested in participating in the futures market.