 How Short Selling Works . Wimpy of the famous Popeye comic strip would have been a perfect short seller. The comic character was famous for saying he would "gladly pay next Tuesday for a hamburger today." In short selling, the seller opens a position by borrowing shares, usually from a broker-dealer. They will try to profit on the use of those shares before they must return them to the lender. How Short Selling Works . To open a short position, a trader must have a margin account and will usually have to pay interest on the value of the borrowed shares while the position is open. Also, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA), which enforces the rules and regulations governing registered brokers and broker-dealer firms in the United States, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), and the Federal Reserve have set minimum values for the amount that the margin account must maintain—known as the maintenance margin. If an investor's account value falls below the maintenance margin, more funds are required, or the position might be sold by the broker. How Short Selling Works . To close a short position, a trader buys the shares back on the market—hopefully at a price less than what they borrowed the asset—and returns them to the lender or broker. Traders must account for any interest charged by the broker or commissions charged on trades. How Short Selling Works . The process of locating shares that can be borrowed and returning them at the end of the trade are handled behind the scenes by the broker. Opening and closing the trade can be made through the regular trading platforms with most brokers. However, each broker will have qualifications the trading account must meet before they allow margin trading. How Short Selling Works . As mentioned earlier, one of the main reasons to engage in short selling is to speculate. Conventional long strategies (stocks are bought) can be classified as investment or speculation, depending on two parameters—(a) the degree of risk undertaken in the trade, and (b) the time horizon of the trade. Investing tends to be lower risk and generally has a long-term time horizon that spans years or decades. Speculation is a substantially higher-risk activity and typically has a short-term time horizon.