 Income Statement Structure . Mathematically, the Net Income is calculated based on the following: Income Statement Structure . Net Income = (Revenue + Gains) – (Expenses + Losses) Income Statement Structure . To understand the above details with some real numbers, let’s assume that a fictitious sports merchandise business, which additionally provides training, is reporting its income statement for the most recent quarter. Income Statement Structure . It received $25,800 from the sale of sports goods and $5,000 from training services. It spent various amounts as listed for the given activities that total $10,650. It realized net gains of $2,000 from the sale of an old van, and incurred losses worth $800 for settling a dispute raised by a consumer. The net income comes to $21,350 for the given quarter. The above example is the simplest forms of the income statement that any standard business can generate. It is called the Single-Step Income Statement as it is based on the simple calculation that sums up revenue and gains and subtracts expenses and losses. Income Statement Structure . However, real-world companies often operate on a global scale, have diversified business segments offering a mix of products and services, and frequently get involved in mergers, acquisitions, and strategic partnerships. Such wide array of operations, diversified set of expenses, various business activities, and the need for reporting in a standard format as per regulatory compliance leads to multiple and complex accounting entries in the income statement. Income Statement Structure . Listed companies follow the Multiple-Step Income Statement which segregates the operating revenues, operating expenses, and gains from the non-operating revenues, non-operating expenses, and losses, and offer many more details through the income statement. Essentially, the different measures of profitability in a multiple-step income statement are reported at four different levels in a business' operations – gross, operating, pre-tax and after-tax. As we shall shortly see in the following example, this segregation helps in identifying how the income and profitability are moving/changing from one level to the other. For instance, high gross profit but lower operating income indicates higher expenses, while higher pre-tax profit and lower post-tax profit indicates loss of earnings to taxes and other one-time, unusual expenses.