 Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . An advantage of inverse ETFs is that they do not require the investor to hold a margin account as would be the case for investors looking to enter into short positions. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . A margin account is one where a broker lends money to an investor to trade. Margin is used with shorting—an advance trading activity. Investors borrow the securities—they don't own them—so that they can sell them to other traders. The goal is to buy the asset back at a lower price and unwind the trade by returning the shares to the margin lender. However, there is the risk that the value of the security rises instead of falling and the investor has to buy back the securities at a higher price than the original margined sale price. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . In addition to a margin account, short selling requires a stock loan fee paid to a broker for borrowing the shares necessary to sell short. Stocks with high short interest may result in difficulty finding shares to be short, which drives up the cost of short selling. In many cases, the cost of borrowing shares to short can exceed 3% of the borrowed amount. You can see why inexperienced traders can quickly get in-over-their-heads. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . Conversely, inverse ETFs often have expense ratios of less than 2% and can be purchased by anyone with a brokerage account. Despite the expense ratios, it is still easier and less costly for an investor to take a position in an inverse ETF than it is to sell stocks short. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . Inverse ETFs allow investors to make money when the market or the underlying index declines. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . Inverse ETFs can help investors hedge their investment portfolio. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . There are multiple inverse ETFs for many of the major market indices. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . Inverse ETFs can lead to losses quickly if investors bet wrong on the market's direction. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . Inverse ETFs held for more than one day can lead to losses. Inverse ETFs Vs. Short Selling . Higher fees exist with inverse ETFs versus traditional ETFs.