 Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy . At the time of its bankruptcy filing, Lehman Brothers held some $600 billion in assets diversified globally. It had invested heavily in mortgage origination in the U.S. form 1996-2006, in large part by utilizing leverage (at its peak at a ratio of about 30:1). As such, some say the firm had become a de-facto real estate hedge fund. When real estate values peaked and then began to falter in 2007-2008, Lehman Brothers became especially vulnerable.  Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy . Over much of 2008, the firm fought off losses by issuing stock, selling assets and reducing cost (issuing debt under such conditions became difficult to impossible). It had on its books huge tranches of subprime and low-rated mortgage loans that it either could not sell or chose not to sell. When these loans became illiquid, and the firm had no ability to pay back its creditors, Lehman Brothers experienced a credit crunch; it could no longer cheaply raise cash via debt issuance, and issuing stock under such conditions led to both dilution of shares and negative sentiment, which caused its share price to fall. Meanwhile, housing prices fell as buyers stayed on the sidelines due both to market conditions and the inability to secure credit. With no loans being made and the world's largest financial institutions under significant threat of failure, the global financial system was under threat of collapse. Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy . The Federal Reserve Bank of New York and several large investment U.S. banks met on Sept. 12, 2008, to discuss an emergency liquidation of Lehman Brothers in an attempt to stabilize the markets. The goal was to avoid a costly government bailout, such as the $25 billion loan the government made to Bear Stearns in March 2008. The discussions, which involved a potential sale to Bank of American and Barclays, failed (vetoed by the Bank of England and the U.K. Financial Services Authority), and efforts by potential acquirers to secure federal intervention were unsuccessful. Lehman Brothers were allowed to fail. The repercussions were felt globally; the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 500 points on the day Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy. 