 Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . A protective put keeps downside losses limited while preserving unlimited potential gains to the upside. However, the strategy involves being long the underlying stock. If the stock keeps rising, the long stock position benefits and the bought put option is not needed and will expire worthlessly. All that will be lost is the premium paid to buy the put option. In this scenario where the original put expired, the investor will buy another protective put, again protecting his holdings. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . Protective puts can cover a portion of an investor's long position or their entire holdings. When the ratio of protective put coverage is equal to the amount of long stock, the strategy is known as a married put. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . Married puts are commonly used when investors want to buy a stock and immediately purchase the put to protect the position. However, an investor can buy the protective put option at any time as long as they own the stock. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . The maximum loss of a protective put strategy is limited to the cost of buying the underlying stock—along with any commissions—less the strike price of the put option plus the premium and any commissions paid to buy the option. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . The strike price of the put option acts as a barrier where losses in the underlying stock stop. The ideal situation in a protective put is for the stock price to increase significantly, as the investor would benefit from the long stock position. In this case, the put option will expire worthlessly, the investor will have paid the premium, but the stock will have increased in value. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . For the cost of the premium, protective puts provide downside protection from an asset's price declines. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . Protective puts allow investors to remain long a stock offering the potential for gains. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . If an investor buys a put and the stock price rises, the cost of the premium reduces the profits on the trade. Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts . If the stock declines in price and a put has been purchased, the premium adds to the losses on the trade.