 Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Selling short can be costly if the seller guesses wrong about the price movement. A trader who has bought stock can only lose 100% of their outlay if the stock moves to zero. Pros and Cons of Short Selling . However, a trader who has shorted stock can lose much more than 100% of their original investment. The risk comes because there is no ceiling for a stock’s price, it can rise to infinity and beyond—to coin a phrase from another comic character, Buzz Lightyear. Also, while the stocks were held, the trader had to fund the margin account. Even if all goes well, traders have to figure in the cost of the margin interest when calculating their profits. Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Possibility of high profits Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Little initial capital required Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Leveraged investments possible Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Hedge against other holdings Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Potentially unlimited losses Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Margin account necessary Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Margin interest incurred Pros and Cons of Short Selling . Short squeezes Pros and Cons of Short Selling . When it comes time to close a position, a short seller might have trouble finding enough shares to buy—if a lot of other traders are also shorting the stock or if the stock is thinly traded. Conversely, sellers can get caught in a short squeeze loop if the market, or a particular stock, starts to skyrocket. Pros and Cons of Short Selling . On the other hand, strategies which offer high risk also offer a high-yield reward. Short selling is no exception. If the seller predicts the price moves correctly, they can make a tidy return on investment (ROI), primarily if they use margin to initiate the trade. Using margin provides leverage, which means the trader did not need to put up much of their capital as an initial investment. If done carefully, short selling can be an inexpensive way to hedge, providing a counterbalance to other portfolio holdings.