 Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . The purest form of financial assets is cash and cash equivalents—checking accounts, savings accounts, and money market accounts. Liquid accounts are easily turned into funds for paying bills and covering financial emergencies or pressing demands. Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . Other varieties of financial assets might not be as liquid. Liquidity is the ability to change a financial asset into cash quickly. For stocks, it is the ability of an investor to buy or sell holdings from a ready market. Liquid markets are those where there are plenty of buyers and plenty of sellers and no extended lag-time in trying to execute a trade. Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . In the case of equities like stocks and bonds, an investor has to sell and wait for the settlement date to receive their money—usually two business days. Other financial assets have varying lengths of settlement. Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . Maintaining funds in liquid financial assets can result in greater preservation of capital. Money in bank checking, savings, and CD accounts are insured against loss of up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)—the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) for credit union accounts. If for some reason the bank fails, your account has dollar-for-dollar coverage up to $250,000. However, since FDIC covers each financial institution individually, an investor with brokered CDs totaling over $250,000 in one bank faces losses if the bank becomes insolvent. Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . Liquid assets like checking and savings accounts have a limited return on investment (ROI) capability. ROI is the profit you receive from an asset less than the cost of owning that asset. In checking and savings accounts the ROI is minimal. They may provide modest interest income but, unlike equities, they offer little appreciation. Also, CDs and money market accounts restrict withdrawals for months or years. When interest rates fall, callable CDs are often called, and investors end up moving their money to potentially lower-income investments. Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . Liquid financial assets convert into cash easily. Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . Some financial assets have the ability to appreciate in value. Pros and Cons of Highly Liquid Financial Assets . The FDIC and NCUA insure accounts up to $250,000.