 Simple Delta . Keep in mind, these call delta values are all positive because we are dealing with long call options, a point to which we will return later. If these were puts, the same values would have a negative sign attached to them. This reflects the fact that put options increase in value when the underlying asset price falls. (An inverse relationship is indicated by the negative delta sign.) You will see below, when we look at short option positions and the concept of position delta, that the story gets a bit more complicated. Simple Delta . Note: We are assuming that the underlying S&P 500 is trading at 900. Simple Delta . Figure 2: Hypothetical S&P 500 long call options. Simple Delta . At this point, you might be wondering what these delta values are telling you. Let's use the following example to help illustrate the concept of simple delta and the meaning of these values. If an S&P 500 call option has a delta of 0.5 (for a near or at-the-money option), a one-point move (which is worth $250) of the underlying futures contract would produce a 0.5 (or 50%) change (worth $125) in the price of the call option. A delta value of 0.5, therefore, tells you that for every $250 change in the value of the underlying futures, the option changes in value by about $125. If you were long this call option and the S&P 500 futures move up by one point, your call option would gain approximately $125 in value, assuming no other variables change in the short run. We say "approximately" because as the underlying moves, delta will change as well. Simple Delta . Be aware that as the option gets further in the money, delta approaches 1.00 on a call and –1.00 on a put. At these extremes, there is a near or actual one-for-one relationship between changes in the price of the underlying and subsequent changes in the option price. In effect, at delta values of –1.00 and 1.00, the option mirrors the underlying in terms of price changes. Simple Delta . Also, keep in mind that this simple example assumes no change in other variables like the following: