 Suitability and Recommendations . Investing in silver ETFs comes with significant risks. As of 2015, over the last five years, the supply of silver tended to exceed its demand, resulting in downward pressure on the price of silver worldwide. Demand for silver comes primarily from coinage minting and the jewelry industry, as well as the industrial sector, which uses silver to produce photography mirrors and electrical conduction materials. Suitability and Recommendations . Adverse changes in the economic environment can have a negative impact on the price of silver since it is used in many industrial applications. Also, as discretionary consumer spending worldwide falls from a result of shifts in preferences or income decline, spending on jewelry can decrease. Suitability and Recommendations . Due to lowered expectation for inflation worldwide, the price of silver took a hit, negatively affecting the value of iShares Silver Trust shares. The attitude of speculators and investors matters a lot for the silver price, especially in short-term horizons. Investors should be especially careful and cognizant of unique risks inherent to investing in silver. Suitability and Recommendations . Based on the above mentioned characteristics of the fund, investing in SLV is most appropriate for investors looking for speculative trading. Because of the persistent decline in the price of silver over the last decade due to overproduction, deflationary pressures and the financial crisis of 2009, the fund consistently generated negative returns. Its five-year annual average return of -3.61% and five-year standard deviation of 38% make investing in the fund very risky with negative returns. Suitability and Recommendations . The iShares Silver Trust is most appropriate for investors who are looking to gain exposure to silver or engage in speculative trading of silver without actually buying silver itself. Also, the fund is a useful tool for investors who want to diversify their portfolios and help protect against inflation.