 T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . Treasury Bills are one of the safest investments available to the investor. But this safety can come at a cost. T-bills pay a fixed rate of interest, which can provide a stable income. However, if interest rates are rising, existing T-bills fall out of favor since their rates are less attractive compared to the overall market. As a result, T-bills have interest rate risk meaning there is a risk that existing bondholders might lose out on higher rates in the future. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . Although T-bills have zero default risk, their returns are typically lower than corporate bonds and some certificates of deposit. Since Treasury bills don't pay periodic interest payments, they're sold at a discounted price to the face value of the bond. The gain is realized when the bond matures, which is the difference between the purchase price and the face value. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . However, if they're sold early, there could be a gain or loss depending on where bond prices are trading at the time of the sale. In other words, if sold early, the sale price of the T-bill could be lower than the original purchase price. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . Zero default risk since T-bills have a U.S. government guarantee. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . T-bills offer a low minimum investment requirement of $100. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . Interest income is exempt from state and local income taxes but subject to federal income taxes. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . Investors can buy and sell T-bills with ease in the secondary bond market. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . T-Bills offer low returns compared with other debt instruments as well as when compared to certificates of deposits (CDs). T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . The T-Bill pays no coupon—interest payments—leading up to its maturity. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . T-bills can inhibit cash flow for investors who require steady income. T-Bill Investment Pros and Cons . T-bills have interest rate risk, so, their rate could become less attractive in a rising-rate environment.