 The CAPM and the Efficient Frontier . Using the CAPM to build a portfolio is supposed to help an investor manage their risk. If an investor were able to use the CAPM to perfectly optimize a portfolio’s return relative to risk, it would exist on a curve called the efficient frontier, as shown on the following graph. The CAPM and the Efficient Frontier . The graph shows how greater expected returns (y-axis) require greater expected risk (x-axis). Modern Portfolio Theory suggests that starting with the risk-free rate, the expected return of a portfolio increases as the risk increases. Any portfolio that fits on the Capital Market Line (CML) is better than any possible portfolio to the right of that line, but at some point, a theoretical portfolio can be constructed on the CML with the best return for the amount of risk being taken. The CAPM and the Efficient Frontier . The CML and efficient frontier may be difficult to define, but it illustrates an important concept for investors: there is a trade-off between increased return and increased risk. Because it isn’t possible to perfectly build a portfolio that fits on the CML, it is more common for investors to take on too much risk as they seek additional return. The CAPM and the Efficient Frontier . In the following chart, you can see two portfolios that have been constructed to fit along the efficient frontier. Portfolio A is expected to return 8% per year and has a 10% standard deviation or risk level. Portfolio B is expected to return 10% per year but has a 16% standard deviation. The risk of portfolio B rose faster than its expected returns. The CAPM and the Efficient Frontier . The efficient frontier assumes the same things as the CAPM and can only be calculated in theory. If a portfolio existed on the efficient frontier it would be providing the maximal return for its level of risk. However, it is impossible to know whether a portfolio exists on the efficient frontier or not because future returns cannot be predicted.