 Types of Sampling . Simple random sampling is ideal if every entity in the population is identical. If the researchers don’t care whether their sample subjects are all male or all female or a combination of both sexes in some form, the simple random sampling may be a good selection technique. Types of Sampling . Let's say there were 200,000 test-takers who sat for the CFA exam in 2016, out of which 40% were women and 60% were men. The random sample drawn from the population should, therefore, have 400 women and 600 men for a total of 1,000 test-takers. Types of Sampling . But what about cases where knowing the ratio of men to women that passed a test after studying for less than 40 hours is important? Here, a stratified random sample would be preferable to a simple random sample. Types of Sampling . This type of sampling, also referred to as proportional random sampling or quota random sampling, divides the overall population into smaller groups. These are known as strata. People within the strata share similar characteristics. Types of Sampling . What if age was an important factor that researchers would like to include in their data? Using the stratified random sampling technique, they could create layers or strata for each age group. The selection from each strata would have to be random so that everyone in the bracket has a likely chance of being included in the sample. For example, two participants, Alex and David, are 22 and 24 years old, respectively. The sample selection cannot pick one over the other based on some preferential mechanism. They both should have an equal chance of being selected from their age group. The strata could look something like this: Types of Sampling . From the table, the population has been divided into age groups. For example, 30,000 people within the age range of 20 to 24 years old took the CFA exam in 2016. Using this same proportion, the sample group will have (30,000 ÷ 200,000) x 1,000 = 150 test-takers that fall within this group. Alex or David—or both or neither—may be included among the 150 random exam participants of the sample.