 Types of Mergers & Acquisitions . Here is a list of transactions that fall under the M&A umbrella: Types of Mergers & Acquisitions . In a merger, the boards of directors for two companies approve the combination and seek shareholders' approval. Post merger, the acquired company ceases to exist and becomes part of the acquiring company. For example, in 2007 a merger deal occurred between Digital Computers and Compaq, whereby Compaq absorbed Digital Computers. Types of Mergers & Acquisitions . In a simple acquisition, the acquiring company obtains the majority stake in the acquired firm, which does not change its name or alter its legal structure. An example of this transaction is Manulife Financial Corporation's 2004 acquisition of John Hancock Financial Services, where both companies preserved their names and organizational structures. Types of Mergers & Acquisitions . Consolidation creates a new company. Stockholders of both companies must approve the consolidation. Subsequent to the approval, they receive common equity shares in the new firm. For example, in 1998, Citicorp and Traveler's Insurance Group announced a consolidation, which resulted in Citigroup. Types of Mergers & Acquisitions . In a tender offer, one company offers to purchase the outstanding stock of the other firm, at a specific price. The acquiring company communicates the offer directly to the other company's shareholders, bypassing the management and board of directors. For example, in 2008, Johnson & Johnson made a tender offer to acquire Omrix Biopharmaceuticals for $438 million. While the acquiring company may continue to exist — especially if there are certain dissenting shareholders — most tender offers result in mergers. Types of Mergers & Acquisitions . In an acquisition of assets, one company acquires the assets of another company. The company whose assets are being acquired must obtain approval from its shareholders. The purchase of assets is typical during bankruptcy proceedings, where other companies bid for various assets of the bankrupt company, which is liquidated upon the final transfer of assets to the acquiring firms.