 Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . Here are the major asset classes, in ascending order of risk, on the investment risk ladder. Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . A cash bank deposit is the simplest, most easily understandable investment asset—and the safest. Not only does it give investors precise knowledge of the interest they'll earn, but it also guarantees they'll get their capital back. Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . On the downside, the interest earned from cash socked away in a savings account seldom beats inflation. Certificates of deposit (CDs) are highly liquid instruments, very similar to cash that are instruments that typically provide higher interest rates than those in savings accounts. However, money is locked up for a period of time and there are potential early withdrawal penalties involved. Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . A bond is a debt instrument representing a loan made by an investor to a borrower. A typical bond will involve either a corporation or a government agency, where the borrower will issue a fixed interest rate to the lender in exchange for using their capital. Bonds are commonplace in organizations that use them in order to finance operations, purchases, or other projects. Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . Bond rates are essentially determined by the interest rates. Due to this, they are heavily traded during periods of quantitative easing or when the Federal Reserve—or other central banks—raise interest rates. Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . Shares of stock let investors participate in the company’s success via increases in the stock’s price and through dividends. Shareholders have a claim on the company’s assets in the event of liquidation (that is, the company going bankrupt) but do not own the assets. Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . Holders of common stock enjoy voting rights at shareholders’ meetings. Holders of preferred stock don’t have voting rights but do receive preference over common shareholders in terms of the dividend payments. Understanding the Investment Risk Ladder . A mutual fund is a type of investment where more than one investor pools their money together in order to purchase securities. Mutual funds are not necessarily passive, as they are managed by portfolio managers who allocate and distribute the pooled investment into stocks, bonds, and other securities. Individuals may invest in mutual funds for as little as $1,000 per share, letting them diversify into as many as 100 different stocks contained within a given portfolio.