 Understanding Securities . Securities can be broadly categorized into two distinct types: equities and debts. However, you will also see hybrid securities that combine elements of both equities and debts. Understanding Securities . An equity security represents ownership interest held by shareholders in an entity (a company, partnership or trust), realized in the form of shares of capital stock, which includes shares of both common and preferred stock. Holders of equity securities are typically not entitled to regular payments—although equity securities often do pay out dividends—but they are able to profit from capital gains when they sell the securities (assuming they've increased in value, naturally). Equity securities do entitle the holder to some control of the company on a pro rata basis, via voting rights. In the case of bankruptcy, they share only in residual interest after all obligations have been paid out to creditors. They are sometimes offered as payment-in-kind. Understanding Securities . A debt security represents money that is borrowed and must be repaid, with terms that stipulates the size of the loan, interest rate, and maturity or renewal date. Debt securities, which include government and corporate bonds, certificates of deposit (CDs) and collateralized securities (such as CDOs​ and CMOs​), generally entitle their holder to the regular payment of interest and repayment of principal (regardless of the issuer's performance), along with any other stipulated contractual rights (which do not include voting rights). They are typically issued for a fixed term, at the end of which they can be redeemed by the issuer. Debt securities can be secured (backed by collateral) or unsecured, and, if unsecured, may be contractually prioritized over other unsecured, subordinated debt in the case of a bankruptcy.  Understanding Securities . Hybrid securities, as the name suggests, combine some of the characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Examples of hybrid securities include equity warrants (options issued by the company itself that give shareholders the right to purchase stock within a certain timeframe and at a specific price), convertible bonds (bonds that can be converted into shares of common stock in the issuing company) and preference shares (company stocks whose payments of interest, dividends or other returns of capital can be prioritized over those of other stockholders).