 Understanding Notional Value . In market parlance, notional value is the total underlying amount of a derivatives trade. The notional value of derivative contracts is much higher than the market value due to a concept called leverage. Understanding Notional Value . Leverage allows one to use a small amount of money to theoretically control a much larger amount. So, notional value helps distinguish the total value of a trade from the cost (or market value) of taking the trade, There is a clear distinction: the notional value accounts for the total value of the position, while the market value is the price at which that position can be bought or sold in the market place. The amount of leverage utilized can be calculated by dividing notional value by market value. Understanding Notional Value . Leverage = Notional value ÷ Market Value Understanding Notional Value . A contract has a unique, standardized size that can be based on factors such as weight, volume or multiplier. For example, a single COMEX Gold futures contract unit (GC) is 100 troy ounces, and an E-mini S&P 500 index futures contract has a $50 multiplier. The notional value of the former is 100 times the market price of gold while the notional value of the latter is $50 times the market price of the S&P 500 index. Understanding Notional Value . Notional Value = Contract Size * Underlying Price Understanding Notional Value . If someone buys an E-mini S&P 500 contract at 2,800, then that single futures contract is worth $140,000 ($50 x 2,800). Therefore, $140,000 is the notional value of that underlying futures contract. The person buying this contract is not required to put up $140,000 when taking the trade, though. Rather, they only need to put up an amount called the initial margin,(market value) which is usually a fraction of the notional amount. The leverage used would be the notional amount divided by the price of buying the contract. If the price (initial margin) for one contract was $10,000, then the trader was able to utilize (140,000/10,000) 14 times leverage.