 Understanding Counterparty Risk . Varying degrees of counterparty risk exists in all financial transactions. Counterparty risk is also known as default risk. Default risk is the chance that companies or individuals will be unable to make the required payments on their debt obligations. Lenders and investors are exposed to default risk in virtually all forms of credit extensions. Counterparty risk is a risk that both parties should consider when evaluating a contract. Understanding Counterparty Risk . If one party has a higher risk of default, a premium is usually attached to the transaction to compensate the other party. The premium added due to counterparty risk is called a risk premium. Understanding Counterparty Risk . In retail and commercial financial transactions, credit reports are often used by creditors to determine the counterparty's credit risk. Credit scores of borrowers are analyzed and monitored to gauge the level of risk to the creditor. A credit score is a numerical value of an individual's or company's creditworthiness, which is based on many variables. Understanding Counterparty Risk . A person's credit score ranges from 300 to 850, and the higher the score, the more financially trustworthy a person is considered to be to the creditor. Numerical values of credit scores are listed below: Understanding Counterparty Risk . Many factors impact a credit score including a client's payment history, the total amount of debt, length of credit history, and credit utilization, which is the percentage of a borrower’s total available credit that is currently being utilized. The numerical value of a borrower's credit score reflects the level of counterparty risk to the lender or creditor. A borrower with a credit score of 750 would have low counterparty risk while a borrower with a credit score of 450 would carry high counterparty risk. Understanding Counterparty Risk . If the borrower has a low credit score, the creditor will likely charge a higher interest rate or premium due to the risk of default on the debt. Credit card companies, for example, charge interest rates in excess of 20% for those with low credit scores while simultaneously offer 0% interest for customers that have stellar credit or high credit scores. If the borrower is delinquent on payments by 60 days or more or exceeds the card's credit limit, credit card companies usually tack on a risk premium or a "penalty rate," which can bring the interest rate of the card to over 29% annually.