 Using ROE to Identify Problems . It’s reasonable to wonder why an average or slightly above average ROE is good rather than an ROE that is double, triple, or even higher the average of their peer group. Aren’t stocks with a very high ROE a better value? Using ROE to Identify Problems . Sometimes an extremely high ROE is a good thing if net income is extremely large compared to equity because a company’s performance is so strong. However, more often an extremely high ROE is due to a small equity account compared to net income, which indicates risk. Using ROE to Identify Problems . The first potential issue with a high ROE could be inconsistent profits. Imagine a company, LossCo, that has been unprofitable for several years. Each year’s losses are on the balance sheet in the equity portion as a “retained loss.” The losses are a negative value and reduce shareholder equity. Assume that LossCo has had a windfall in the most recent year and has returned to profitability. The denominator in the ROE calculation is now very small after many years of losses which makes its ROE misleadingly high. Using ROE to Identify Problems . Second is excess debt. If a company has been borrowing aggressively, it can increase ROE because equity is equal to assets minus debt. The more debt a company borrows, the lower equity can fall. A common scenario that can cause this issue occurs when a company borrows large amounts of debt to buy back its own stock. This can inflate earnings per share (EPS), but it doesn’t affect actual growth rates or performance. Using ROE to Identify Problems . Finally, there’s negative net income and negative shareholder equity that can lead to an artificially high ROE. However, if a company has a net loss or negative shareholders’ equity, ROE should not be calculated. Using ROE to Identify Problems . If shareholders’ equity is negative, the most common issue is excessive debt or inconsistent profitability. However, there are exceptions to that rule for companies that are profitable and have been using cash flow to buy back their own shares. For many companies, this is an alternative to paying dividends and it can eventually reduce equity (buybacks are subtracted from equity) enough to turn the calculation negative.