 When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea? . Certificates of deposit are useful in a few different situations. Perhaps you have cash you don’t need now, but will want within the next few years—maybe for a special vacation or to buy a new home, car, or boat. For near-term uses like that, the stock market generally isn’t considered a suitable investment as you could lose money over that period of time.  When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea? . Or maybe you simply want some portion of your savings invested very conservatively, or shun the risk and volatility of the stock and bond markets altogether. Though CDs don’t offer the growth potential of equity or debt investments, they also don’t carry a risk of downturns. For money that you want to absolutely ensure will grow in value, even if modestly, certificates of deposit can fit the bill. When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea? . One of the downsides of CDs can also be a useful feature for some savers. For those who worry they won’t have the discipline to avoid tapping their savings, the fixed term of a CD—and the associated penalty for early withdrawal—provide a deterrent to spending that regular savings and money market accounts do not. When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea? . One version of this is using CDs for your emergency fund. This allows you to ensure you always have sufficient reserves on hand in case of an emergency because the amount in the CD will never decrease. And though you may incur a penalty if you have to dip into your funds early, the idea is that you would only do this in a true emergency, not for lesser but tempting reasons. All the while, you’ll be earning a better return while the funds are invested than if you had deposited them in a savings or money market account. When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea? . Offers a higher rate than you can earn with a savings or money market account When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea? . Pays a guaranteed, predictable rate of return, avoiding the volatility and losses that are possible with stocks and bonds When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea? . Is federally insured if opened with an FDIC bank or NCUA credit union